Create post to encourage testing staging release sync (#724)
packit/packit.dev: posts/verify-sync-release-volunteers/index.md

authors: lbarczio
tags:
  - downstream
  - pull-from-upstream
  - propose-downstream
  - staging
---

In the upcoming months, we plan to migrate our service to a new cluster. However, this may affect `propose_downstream`
and `pull_from_upstream` jobs due to the new firewall rules. The problematic aspects could be:

- commands you run in your `actions` during syncing the release involving interactions with external servers
- downloading your sources from various hosting services (crates.io, npm, gems, etc.)

To smoothen this transition, we kindly encourage you to enable one of these jobs on our already migrated staging instance.
This recommendation is particularly important if you belong to one of the groups affected by the two previous points.
This proactive step will help us identify and address any issues promptly. To avoid too much noise in your dist-git PRs,
you may enable the job for only one target, resulting in only one additional PR created.

Here's how you can enable one of the jobs on the staging instance:

- `pull-from-upstream`:
  The only thing needed is to duplicate the job in your Packit config using `packit_instances` configuration option. Example:

> ```yaml
> - job: pull_from_upstream
>   trigger: release
>   packit_instances: ["stg"]
>   dist_git_branches:
>     - fedora-rawhide
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```yaml
  - job: pull_from_upstream
    trigger: release
    packit_instances: ["stg"]
    dist_git_branches:
      - fedora-rawhide
  ```
```

Formatting :D

You probably can't use the suggestion, because GitHub “ate” the backticks that close the block in the source /o\

- `propose-downstream`:
  For this job, you first need to [enable our staging Github app](https://github.com/packit/packit/discussions/1530).
  After that, similarly to `pull-from-upstream`, you only need to duplicate the job in your Packit config using `packit_instances`. Example:

```yaml
- job: propose_downstream
  trigger: release
  packit_instances: ["stg"]
  dist_git_branches:
    - fedora-rawhide
```

> :::info
> When merging the PRs created by Packit, please don't forget to merge the PRs created by the production instance
> if you have a follow-up `koji_build` job enabled to ensure your builds will not be skipped (see [allowed_pr_authors](/docs/configuration/downstream/koji_build#optional-parameters))).
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info

When merging the PRs created by Packit, please don't forget to merge the PRs created by the production instance
if you have a follow-up `koji_build` job enabled to ensure your builds will not be skipped (see [allowed_pr_authors](/docs/configuration/downstream/koji_build#optional-parameters))).

:::
```

Prettier is a mf-er… (not worse than my OCD though…)

---
title: "Call for volunteers: help to test us the release syncing using staging instance"
date: 2023-08-30T14:46:18+02:00
authors: lbarczio
tags:
  - downstream
  - pull-from-upstream
  - propose-downstream
  - staging
---

In the upcoming months, we plan to migrate our service to a new cluster. However, this may affect `propose_downstream`
and `pull_from_upstream` jobs due to the new firewall rules. The problematic aspects could be:

- commands you run in your `actions` during syncing the release involving interactions with external servers
- downloading your sources from various hosting services (crates.io, npm, gems, etc.)

To smoothen this transition, we kindly encourage you to enable one of these jobs on our already migrated staging instance.
This recommendation is particularly important if you belong to one of the groups affected by the two previous points.
This proactive step will help us identify and address any issues promptly. To avoid too much noise in your dist-git PRs,

> you may enable the job for only one target, resulting in only one additional PR created.

Reviewer 2: I would explicitly mention, that you can run both instances together -- and add the new one but still preserve the production one. (It's somehow mentioned later on, but people not familiar with how our staging instance works might be confused.)

Author: added

Here's how you can enable one of the jobs on the staging instance:

- `pull-from-upstream`:
  The only thing needed is to duplicate the job in your Packit config using `packit_instances` configuration option. Example:

```yaml
- job: pull_from_upstream
  trigger: release
  packit_instances: ["stg"]
  dist_git_branches:
    - fedora-rawhide
```

- `propose-downstream`:

>   For this job, you first need to [enable our staging Github app](https://github.com/packit/packit/discussions/1530).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For this job, you first need to [enable our staging Github app](https://packit.dev/docs/guide#staging-instance).
```

Reviewer 2: I would rather update the part in packit.dev to be up to date so we have all the info there and people going through the onboarding has the full info as well. (It will also be easier to update in the future as well.) And discussions aren't much used I think.

  After that, similarly to `pull-from-upstream`, you only need to duplicate the job in your Packit config using `packit_instances`. Example:

```yaml
- job: propose_downstream
  trigger: release
  packit_instances: ["stg"]
  dist_git_branches:
    - fedora-rawhide
```

:::info

> When merging the PRs created by Packit, please don't forget to merge the PRs created by the production instance
> if you have a follow-up `koji_build` job enabled to ensure your builds will not be skipped (see [allowed_pr_authors](/docs/configuration/downstream/koji_build#optional-parameters))).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When merging the PRs created by Packit, please don't forget to merge the PRs created by the production instance
if you have a follow-up `koji_build` job enabled to ensure your builds will not be skipped. You can also allow staging instance to build as well (see [allowed_pr_authors](/docs/configuration/downstream/koji_build#optional-parameters))).
```

You can also mention that for Koji and Bodhi, you should run just one instance?

---
title: "Call for volunteers: help to test us the release syncing using staging instance"
date: 2023-09-05T14:46:18+02:00
authors: lbarczio
tags:
  - downstream
  - pull-from-upstream
  - propose-downstream
  - staging
---

In the upcoming months, we plan to migrate our service to a new cluster. However, this may affect `propose_downstream`
and `pull_from_upstream` jobs due to the new firewall rules. The problematic aspects could be:

- commands you run in your `actions` during syncing the release involving interactions with external servers
- downloading your sources from various hosting services (crates.io, npm, gems, etc.)

To smoothen this transition, we kindly encourage you to enable one of these jobs on our already migrated staging instance.
This recommendation is particularly important if you belong to one of the groups affected by the two previous points.
This proactive step will help us identify and address any issues promptly.

Both instances can be run at the same time and the behaviour can be configured via the `packit_instances` configuration key,

> which is by default set to `["prod"]`. Picking just one instance might be better for `koji_build` and `bodhi_update` jobs since both instances will work with the production instances of Fedora systems.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which is by default set to `["prod"]`. Picking just one instance is required only for `koji_build` and `bodhi_update` jobs since both instances work with the production instances of Fedora systems.  
```
